Chapter01/03-04 (#8)
acend/openshift-4-ops-training: content/en/docs/01/04_backup.md

sectionnumber: 1.4
---

In this lab, you will create scheduled backups for the most important cluster components.

## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.1: Create user workload backups

> As a cluster admin, you can create scheduled backups of your users resources, to be able to restore them in case of emergency, like an accidental deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a cluster admin, you can create scheduled backups of your users' resources. This allows you to restore them in cases like an accidental deletion.
```

> {{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}You will be using Velero to create user workload backups.{{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
You will be using Velero to create user workload backups.
{{% /alert %}}
```

> Setup a daily backup of the resources in namespace `uptime-app-prod` with a lifetime of 10 days by createing the following schedule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup a daily backup of the resources in namespace `uptime-app-prod` with a lifetime of 10 days by creating the following schedule:
```

{{< highlight yaml >}}{{< readfile file="content/en/docs/01/resources/schedule_daily-backup-uptime-app-prod.yaml" >}}{{< /highlight >}}

> {{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}} This resource file is also available at https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/schedule_daily-backup-uptime-app-prod.yaml. {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
This resource file is also available at https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/schedule_daily-backup-uptime-app-prod.yaml.
{{% /alert %}}
```

```bash
oc -n training-infra-velero apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/schedule_daily-backup-uptime-app-prod.yaml
```

The schedule will create the first backup immediately. Have a look at the status part of the backup:

```bash
$ oc -n training-infra-velero describe backup | grep -A 9 Status
Status:
  Completion Timestamp:  2021-04-14T09:31:11Z
  Expiration:            2021-04-24T09:30:50Z
  Format Version:        1.1.0
  Phase:                 Completed
  Progress:
    Items Backed Up:  31
    Total Items:      31
  Start Timestamp:    2021-04-14T09:30:50Z
  Version:            1

> ```

Reviewer: Schplit öp.

## Task {{% param sectionnumber %}}.2 Create etcd backup

To be able to restore the cluster in case of a disaster, you will create a scheduled `etcd` backup.

Create a new project to be used for the backup:

```bash
oc new-project training-infra-etcd-backup
```

> Since `etcd` is running on the masters, we need to make sure, the cronjob pods creating the `etcd` snapshots are running on the master as well, by adding the following annotation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since `etcd` is running on the masters, we need to make sure the cronjob pods creating the `etcd` snapshots are running on the master as well. We can do this by adding the following annotation:
```

```bash
oc patch namespace training-infra-etcd-backup -p \
    '{"metadata":{"annotations":{"openshift.io/node-selector": "node-role.kubernetes.io/master="}}}'
```

For the cronjob pod to be able to access the `etcd` files, we need to create a service account with additional permissions by attaching a custom `SecurityContextConstraints` (SCC) policy:

> Service Account:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Service account:

```

{{< highlight yaml >}}{{< readfile file="content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/sa_etcd-backup.yaml" >}}{{< /highlight >}}

> SCC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* SCC:
```

{{< highlight yaml >}}{{< readfile file="content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/scc_privileged-etcd-backup.yaml" >}}{{< /highlight >}}

```bash
oc -n training-infra-etcd-backup apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/sa_etcd-backup.yaml
oc -n training-infra-etcd-backup apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/scc_privileged-etcd-backup.yaml
```

Now we can create the secret containing the AWS credentials and S3 bucket configuration:

```bash
oc -n training-infra-etcd-backup apply -f ~/ocp4-ops/resources/etcd-backup/secret_etdc-backup-s3-bucket.yaml #FIXM: secret handling
```

> Finally we can create the `ConfigMap` containing the backup script and the `CronJob`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally we can create the `ConfigMap` containing the backup script and the `CronJob` resources. Here's what they look like:
```

{{< highlight yaml >}}{{< readfile file="content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/cm_backup-script.yaml" >}}{{< /highlight >}}

{{< highlight yaml >}}{{< readfile file="content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/cronjob_etcd-backup.yaml" >}}{{< /highlight >}}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Create them with:

```

```bash
oc -n training-infra-etcd-backup apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/cm_backup-script.yaml
oc -n training-infra-etcd-backup apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/acend/openshift-4-ops-training/main/content/en/docs/01/resources/etcd-backup/cronjob_etcd-backup.yaml
```

> {{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}} In our example of the `CronJob` the backup job is started every six hours. If you do not want to wait that long, change the schedule of the `CronJob` accordingly. {{% /alert %}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}
In our example of the `CronJob` the backup job is started every six hours. If you do not want to wait that long, change the schedule of the `CronJob` accordingly.
{{% /alert %}}
```

You can verify the backup job by looking at the result or by checking the logs of the pod:

```bash
# job status

> $ oc -n training-infra-etcd-backup get jobs

Reviewer: Schplitt öp.
